# 2024-03-07

Attendees: hexa, vcunat, zimbatm (Jonas), Linus, Julien, Raito/Ryan, Jade (most
of the time)

## [hexa] arm64 hetzner machine config

- Dump it into a new directory in the infra repo, allow infra-build to deploy
  - vcunat: There's an issue containing the bits of the configuration
  - vcunat: I assumed we wanted to migrate it directly to a new deployment
    system
  - hexa: delroth wanted to script out iPXE but this has not panned out yet, we
    discovered we had DHCP available, which is promising

## [zimbatm] Round table

What is on everyone's mind? What are your plans?

- Linus:
  - Happy to help out with stuff, pairing on with anything
  - zimbatm: Do you think we should do a better presentation?
  - linus: I think that'd be good
- hexa:
  - Looking at iPXE, hold us back the most right now
    - will coordinate with delroth, if he has already anything
  - Open to discuss the Ceph scenario
    - A lot of discussions ongoing with the self-hosted binary cache, that's
      good
    - We are running into questions that cannot be answered by anyone
      - What should be the availability?
      - What should be the durability?
      - Discussion running in circles right now
    - Form a tightr discussion group
      - So that you can identify the main points
      - And address them
      - And not run into circles
- vcunat:
  - Continuously busy with staging iterations
  - Unblocking difficult to access machines, e.g. aarch64 machine
  - There's actually more of my machines in the infra and that also requires
    update
  - Small benchmarking machine that makes sense:
    - t2a
    - The point is to have consistent benchmarking data
    - Linus: we definitely don't have cloud VMs for benchmarking, we probably
      want dedicated hardware
  - zimbatm: could you potentially create a ticket to make an inventory of your
    machines?
  - vcunat: there's two machines: t2a and t4b only really
- Julien:
  - _Short-term_: I would like to onboard more folks on non-critical
    infrastructure
    - I would like to give them tasks to do end to end
    - Difficult to do with the current list of tasks atm
  - The wiki is also something I also want to get out ASAP
    - The technical issues are basically non-existent, just a little bit more
      work to do
    - Then announcements, onboard people to do editorial work, and that's it
    - We are near ready to launch
  - zimbatm: Bitwarden
    - Julien: we need to move the data from old to new and inform the change to
      the users
    - zimbatm: OK, we need to organize that migration
    - Julien: we can discuss this async
  - Interested also in cache self-hosting discussions
    - We have momentum and it'd be nice to have some sort of stance from infra
      people
    - Addressing the recent unrest regarding the public stance of infra on self
      hosting
    - zimbatm: we should/could do a proof of concept so we can get a feeling
      about how easy is it to operate
- Ryan:
  - Recommend https://github.com/zhaofengli/colmena/pull/198

Things to pick up for infra:
https://github.com/NixOS/infra/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3Anew-service

## [hexa] darwin access

- hexa: We have an inventory problem
  - What machines exist? What machines should we be able to access?
  - Important so we can delegate access and unblock work
  -

- Braindump
  - Apple M1 at Hetzner (hydra)
  - Apple M1 in Grahams basement (???)
  - Apple M1 at Macstadium (ofborg)
  - Apple x86_64 at Macstadium (ofborg)

## [hexa] ofBorg access

- hexa: we have some folks who want to work on OfBorg but cannot do because they
  are not empowered on to do so
  - it is also go via buildkite management mechanism from Graham

## [raito] aarch64.nixos.community management

- https://github.com/NixOS/aarch64-build-box/
  - managed by community or infra?
  - zimbatm: it used to be in the nix-community infra, but because the
    nix-community does not have access to the Packet account
  - hexa: in the past, the worst we had is to debug the kernel issues, which is
    difficult w/o packet access
  - utilized by ofBorg, too, not a problem because we don't need to trust its
    build results
  - zimbatm: will talk with zowoq, who manages the nix-community day-to-day
    operation

## Changelog

- Cancelled the contract for `eris.nixos.org` (ends after 2024-02-28)
  - All services have been migrated to pluto.nixos.org
- Set up backups for Prometheus, Grafana, VictoriaMetrics
- The primary hostnames for Prometheus and Grafana have changed
  - https://prometheus.nixos.org
  - https://grafana.nixos.org
  - Redirects for the old hostname/path are in place
- Hydra changes
  - Increase pipe size to improve queue-runner performance
  - Increased retention interval of Prometheus to two years so we have more
    history to evaluate these changes
- Builders have received the fix for
  https://github.com/NixOS/nix/security/advisories/GHSA-2ffj-w4mj-pg37
- GitHub App for wiki.nixos.org so users can log in.
